### 👉 You Do - Lists & Dictionary Practice Exercise <small>(10 mins)</small>

1. Define a list named `scores` that contains a dictionary with the following shape:
    ```python
    scores = [
      {
        'name': 'name of the player',
        'points': 25  # points the player scored
      }
    ]
    ```
2. Next, using `append()`, to add an additional "score" dictionary to the `scores` list.
3. Iterate over the items in the `scores` list and print a string with this format
    ```
    <name> scored <points> points
    ```
    for each dictionary item in the list.

## 5. List Comprehensions

### Purpose

[List comprehensions](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#list-comprehensions) are a powerful feature in Python.

They provide a concise way to create and work with lists.

They will seem confusing as first, but they certainly are a favorite of Pythonistas and you will probably come across them when googling.

### Numerical Example

Say we needed to square all of the numbers in a list and put them into a new list, we might use a for loop like this:

```python
nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
	
# I want 'n * n' for each 'n' in nums 
squares = []
for n in nums:
  squares.append(n * n)
print(squares)
> [1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81, 100]
```

<details>
<summary>
❓ What JS method would we use in this scenario?
</summary>
<hr>

<code>map()</code>

<hr>
</details>

A list comprehension can reduce this code:

```python
squares = []
for n in nums:
  squares.append(n * n)
```
To this:
	
```python
squares = [n * n for n in nums]
```

> 👀 Again, a list comprehension always returns a **new** list.

### Basic Syntax

Here's the basic syntax of a list comprehension:

```python
# [<expression> for <item> in <list>]
# This reads as: I want <expression> for each <item> in <list>
```

As you can see, a list comprehension is basically a modified `for...in` loop within square brackets that returns a new list.

### Filtering the Items

We just saw how list comprehensions are a nice way to map a list, but they can be used for **filtering** too.

Again, let's start with a non-comprehension approach by using a `for...in` loop to map and filter `nums`:

```python
nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
	
# I want 'n * n' for each 'n' in nums  if 'n * n' is even
even_squares = []
for n in nums:
  square = n * n 
  if square % 2 == 0:
    even_squares.append(square)
print(even_squares)
> [4, 16, 36, 64, 100]
```

Again list comprehensions reduce the above from:

```python
even_squares = []
for n in nums:
  square = n * n 
  if square % 2 == 0:
    even_squares.append(square)
```
To this one-liner:
	
```python
even_squares = [n * n for n in nums if (n * n) % 2 == 0]
```
Talk about less is more!

### ❓ List Comprehensions - Review Questions

<details>
<summary>
(1) What characters start and end a list comprehension?
</summary>
<hr>

A <code>[</code> starts the list comprehension and a <code>]</code> ends it

<hr>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
(2) True or False: A list comprehension creates a new list?
</summary>
<hr>

True

<hr>
</details>

## 6. Tuples

**Tuples** in Python are very similar to Python **lists**.

Tuples have a class (type) of `tuple`.

You may come across tuple's being "classified" based on how many items they contain, e.g., a **2-tuple** would contain two items such as `(some_key, some_value)`.

### Basic Syntax

Tuples can be defined in a few different ways.  Most basically, they are defined like this:

```python
colors = ('red', 'green', 'blue')
print(colors)
> ('red', 'green', 'blue')
print( len(colors) )
> 3
``` 

The parentheses are actually optional.  The following would work as well:

```python
colors = 'red', 'green', 'blue'
```

However, using parenthesis seems to be the convention.

If you need to create a 1-tuple (a tuple with one item), be aware that a comma is necessary:

```python
# Will not create a tuple
hello_tuple = ('Hello')
print( type(hello_tuple) )
>  <class 'str'>

hello_tuple = ('Hello',)
# or just the following (no parens required)
hello_tuple = 'Hello',
print( type(hello_tuple) )
> <class 'tuple'>
```
	
### Differences Between Tuples & Lists

The main difference between tuples and lists is that tuples are immutable.

Since tuples can't be changed after they are created, they are great for protecting data that you don't want to be changed.

Tuples internally are "lighter weight" than lists and Python iterates over tuples faster than lists.

Because they are immutable, tuples can even be used as keys for dictionaries.

Generally, you'll find that tuples are used to contain heterogeneous (different) data types and lists for homogeneous (similar) data types.

### Accessing Items

Although tuples can't be modified like lists, we retrieve their items in the same way using square brackets:

```python
colors = ('red', 'green', 'blue')
green = colors[1]
print(green)
> green
```

_Sequences_ (lists, tuples & strings) also have an `index()` method that returns the index of the first match:

```python
colors = ('red', 'green', 'blue')
blue_idx = colors.index('blue')
print(blue_idx)
> 2
```

### Iteration

The items in tuples are iterated over by using `for...in` loops as we saw previously with lists:

```python
colors = ('red', 'green', 'blue')
for idx, color in enumerate(colors):
  print(idx, color)
> 0 red
> 1 green
> 2 blue
```

### Unpacking Tuples

Tuples (and other sequences such as lists & strings) have a convenient feature, called **unpacking**, for performing multiple variable assignments in a single line of code:

```python
colors = ('red', 'green', 'blue')
r, g, b = colors
print(r, g, b)
> red green blue
```

Comma separated variables on the left-side of the assignment operator and a sequence of values on the right is what it takes.

FYI, we were seeing unpacking in action within the `for in` loops above, for example:
 
```python
for key, val in student.items():
  print( f"{key} = {val}" )
```

## 7. Slicing (Copying) Sequences

Slicing in Python is used to create "slices" (copies) of sequences.

However, instead of using a `slice` method like we did in JS, Python has a cool "slice" operator that uses this syntax:

```python
a_sequence[m:n]
```

Just like with indexing, slicing uses square brackets, but adds a colon:

```python
short_name = 'Alexandria'[0:4]
print(short_name)
> Alex
```

Note that the slice includes up to, **but not including** the index to the right of the colon.

<details>
<summary>
❓ Is this the same as with the ending index in JS's <code>slice()</code> method?
</summary>
<hr>

Yes!

<hr>
</details>

If the first index is omitted, a default starting index of `0` is used:

```python
colors = ('red', 'green', 'blue')
print( colors[:2] )
> ('red', 'green')
```
 
If the up to index is omitted, the slice copies the sequence all the way to the end:

```python
colors = ['red', 'green', 'blue']
print( colors[1:] )
> ['green', 'blue']
```

Assuming the following code:

```python
fruit = ('apples', 'bananas', 'oranges')
fruits = fruit[:]
```

<details>
<summary>
❓ What would the value of <code>fruits</code> be?
</summary>
<hr>

<pre>
('apples', 'bananas', 'oranges')
</pre>
<p>Yes, an entire copy of the source tuple!</p>

<hr>
</details>

### Slice Assignment in Lists

Amazingly, we can use the slice operator to insert and/or remove items in a list - similar to how JavaScript's `splice()` method can be used.

For example, assume this list:

```python
chars = ['a', 'b', 'x', 'y', 'd']
```

We could replace the `'x'` and `'y'` characters with `'c'` like this:

```python
chars = ['a', 'b', 'x', 'y', 'd']
chars[2:4] = 'c'
print(chars)
> ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']
```

## 8. Python Containers Summary

Python's **dictionary**, **list** and **tuple** are the most common data types used as containers for collections of data.

In addition, Python offers amazing power, convenience and readability with features such as list comprehensions and slicing.

However, as usual, it takes practice to become "comfortable" with these concepts, so on to the lab, but first...

## 9. ❓ Essential Questions <small>(1 minute)</small>

<details>
<summary>
(1) What is the practical difference between a list and a tuple.
</summary>
<hr>

Unlike lists, tuples are immutable (cannot be changed)

<hr>
</details> 

```python
fruit = {
  'apples': 'red',
  'bananas': 'yellow',
  'oranges': 'orange'
}

color_of_bananas = fruit.bananas
```

<details>
<summary>
(2) What's the problem with the above code?
</summary>
<hr>

On this line of code:
<pre>
color_of_bananas = fruit.bananas
</pre>
The <code>fruit.bananas</code> won't work because we have to use square bracket notation, such as:
<pre>
color_of_bananas = fruit['bananas']
</pre>

<hr>
</details>

```python
one, two, three = 'abc'
```
<details>
<summary>
(3) What concept is being used above to assign values to the variables and what would the value of <code>two</code> be?
</summary>
<hr>

The concept is known as <strong>unpacking</strong>.

The value of <code>two</code> would be <code>'b'</code>

<hr>
</details>