### 👉 You Do - Dictionary Practice Exercise <small>(10 mins)</small>

1. Define a Python dictionary named `where_my_things_are` containing a few items where:
	- the `keys` are things you have, and
	- the `values` are the locations you keep those things.

2. Write a `for...in` loop that iterates over the items in the dictionary and prints each one as<br>**_My [thing] is kept [location]_**

## 4. Lists

### Purpose

**Lists** are to Python as **arrays** are to JS.

A **list** provides a container for zero or more items (_elements_ in JS arrays).

**Lists** can contain items of different types, including dictionaries and nested lists.

**Lists** have a class (type) of `list`.

### Basic Syntax

Like arrays in JS, a **list** can be created literally with a set of **square brackets**:

```python
colors = ['red', 'green', 'blue']
```

The number of items in a list is returned using the built-in `len()` function:

```python
len(colors)
> 3
```

### Features

Lists are considered to be a _sequence_ type in Python. A _sequence_ is a generic term used for an **ordered** collection. Other _sequence_ types in Python include **strings** and **tuples**.

Lists are mutable:

- Existing items within a list can be updated
- Items can be added to a list
- Items can be removed from a list

### Accessing Items

Accessing the individual items of a list is much like accessing elements in a JS array, i.e., by using square bracket notation with an expression that evaluates to an integer:

```python
idx = 1
colors[idx + 1]
> blue
```

However, unlike in JS, we can use negative integers to index from the end of a list:

```python
colors[-1]
> blue
```

No need to write code like `colors[len(colors) - 1]` - yay!

### Assigning Items

We also use square brackets to target an item of a list for assignment:

```python
colors[-1] = 'brown'
print(colors)
> ['red', 'green', 'brown']
```

Unlike with JS arrays, assigning to a non-existing index results in an error:

```python
colors[10] = 'yellow'
> IndexError: list assignment index out of range
```

### Adding an Item

The equivalent to JS's `push()` method is `append()`:

```python
colors.append('purple')
```
	
However, unlike JS's `push()` method, `append()` can only add one item and does not return a value.

<details>
<summary>
❓ What does a JavaScript array's <code>push()</code> method return?
</summary>
<hr>

The new length of the array

<hr>
</details>
	
For adding multiple items, use the `extend()` method:

```python
colors.extend(['orange', 'black'])
```

or the `+=` operator:

```python
colors += ['orange', 'black']
```

The `+` operator can be used to create a **new list** by combining others:

```python
odds = [1, 3, 5]
evens = [2, 4, 6]
nums = odds + evens
print(nums)
> [1, 3, 5, 2, 4, 6]
```

### Inserting an Item

To add an item anywhere within a list, use the `insert()` method:

```python
print(colors)
> ['red', 'green', 'brown', 'purple', 'orange', 'black']
colors.insert(1, 'yellow')
> ['red', 'yellow', 'green', 'brown', 'purple', 'orange', 'black']
```

### Removing an Item

Yup, there's a `pop()` method, but it's more flexible in Python because you can specify the index of the item to remove and return:

```python
print(colors)
> ['red', 'yellow', 'green', 'brown', 'purple', 'orange', 'black']
green = colors.pop(2)
print(colors)
> ['red', 'yellow', 'brown', 'purple', 'orange', 'black']
```

If you don't care about the value returned by `pop()`, you can also use the `del` operator to delete an item:

```python
print(colors)
> ['red', 'yellow', 'brown', 'purple', 'orange', 'black']
del colors[1]
print(colors)
> ['red', 'brown', 'purple', 'orange', 'black']
```

Also there's a `remove()` method that removes the first item that matches what you pass in:

```python
print(colors)
> ['red', 'brown', 'purple', 'orange', 'black']
colors.remove('orange')
print(colors)
> ['red', 'brown', 'purple', 'black']
```

No value is returned by the `remove()` method.

### Clearing an Entire List

The `clear()` method does just what you'd think:

```python
print(colors)
> ['red', 'brown', 'purple', 'black']
colors.clear()
print(colors)
> []
```

### Iterating Over Items in a List

The `for...in` loop is used to iterate over the items in a list:

```python
colors = ['red', 'green', 'blue']
for color in colors:
  print(color)
> red
> green
> blue
```

If we need to access the index of the item while iterating over a list, we use the built-in `enumerate()` function to provide the index and the value to a `for...in` loop:

```python
for idx, color in enumerate(colors):
  print(idx, color)
> 0 red
> 1 green
> 2 blue
```

Please navigate to the next page where you will complete and submit the following exercise...
