### Further Study or Code-Along?

We always encourage practicing expanding your learning on your own by reviewing the Further Study sections.

However, this time, the option is yours, you can stop the video and implement default values and validation on your own, or feel to follow along as I take you through it!

## 15. Further Study

### Defining Default Values for a Property

If a certain property is not provided when creating data, it's possible to specify in the schema a default value to use.

To add a default value, we need to switch from this simple property definition syntax:

```js
const movieSchema = new Schema({
  title: String,
  releaseYear: Number,
  ...
```

To this object syntax:

```js
const movieSchema = new Schema({
  title: String,
  releaseYear: { type: Number },
  ...
```

Now we can add a `default` key to specify a default value:

```js
const movieSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  title: String,
  releaseYear: { type: Number, default: 2000 },
  mpaaRating: String,
  cast: [String],
  nowShowing: { type: Boolean, default: false }
});
```

Silly example defaulting the release year to 2000 - yes. But that's how we can add a simple default value.

> Note that defaults for array types will not work - they require the use of Mongoose middleware to set default values.

Test it out in the app and we'll find that it didn't work for the `releaseYear` because `req.body.releaseYear` exists (albeit its value is an empty string) and this prevents the default from being assigned.

We can fix this in the `create` action by deleting any property in `req.body` that is an empty string:

```js
if (req.body.cast) req.body.cast = req.body.cast.split(/\s*,\s*/);
// Remove empty properties so that defaults will be applied
for (let key in req.body) {
  if (req.body[key] === '') delete req.body[key];
}
```

Now if we don't type in a value in the form for the `releaseYear` property, the default of `2000` will be set.

#### Using a function to provide a default value

You've seen how to add a simple default value, but we can also provide a function as well.

The property's default would then be set to the value returned by the function!

For example, we can take our silly default for `releaseYear` and make it default to the current year like this:

```js
const movieSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  title: String,
  releaseYear: {
    type: Number,
    default: function() {
      return new Date().getFullYear();
    }
  },
  mpaaRating: String,
  cast: [String],
  nowShowing: { type: Boolean, default: true }
}, {
  timestamps: true
});
```

### Defining Validations for a Property

Validations are used to prevent bogus data, i.e., data that does not conform to the schema, from being saved in the database.

There are several built-in validators we can use.

However, endless flexibility is possible with custom asynchronous and synchronous validator functions and/or Mongoose middleware.

As always, let's take a look at the basics at first...

Movies should not be allowed to be created without a `title`.  Let's make it required:

```js
const movieSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  title: { type: String, required: true },
  ...
```

Now, if we try saving a movie without a `title` a validation error will occur and the data will not be saved.

> 👀 As a reminder, we coded the `create` action to render an error message in the `new.ejs` view if an error occurs.

For properties that are of type _Number_, we can specify a `min` and `max` value:

```js
const movieSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  ...
  releaseYear: {
    type: Number,
    default: function() {
      return new Date().getFullYear();
    },
    min: 1927
  },
  ...
```

Cool - no more silent movies!
	
For properties that are of type _String_, we have:

- **`enum`**: String must be in the provided list
- **`match`**: String must match the provided regular expression
- **`maxlength`** and **`minlength`**: Take a guess :)

Here is how we use the `enum` validator on the `mpaaRating` property:

```js
const movieSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  ...
  mpaaRating: {
    type: String,
    enum: ['G', 'PG', 'PG-13', 'R']
  },
  ...
```

> Note:  Some of you may think the above validation is unnecessary because the user is restricted by the choices in the form's `<select>`, however, it's quite easy to bypass such client-side validation - so, it's always a good idea to validate on the server.

<details>
<summary>
👀 Do you need to sync your code?
</summary>
<hr>

<code>git reset --hard origin/sync-6-finish-intro</code>

<hr>
</details>

## References

- [Official MongooseJS Documentation](http://mongoosejs.com/)


