## 6. Defining Schemas in Mongoose

Next, we're going to:

1. Create a module for the Schema/Model
2. Define a basic Schema for a `Movie` model

### Create a module for the Schema/Model

So, where are we going to put our app's schemas and models?

The MVC design pattern is all about code organization and it makes sense to organize modules that define schemas/models within a `models` folder:

```
mkdir models
touch models/movie.js
```

There will always be a module per Mongoose Model where:

1. We define the schema,
2. Compile the schema into a model, and
3. Export that model.

### Define a basic Schema for a `Movie` model

In the schema/model module, we will start with this code:

```js
const mongoose = require('mongoose');
// optional shortcut to the mongoose.Schema class
const Schema = mongoose.Schema;
```

Creating the shortcut to the `mongoose.Schema` class is optional but convenient when defining most schemas.

Now let's define the basic schema for the `Movie` Model:

```js
const Schema = mongoose.Schema;
	
const movieSchema = new Schema({
  title: String,
  releaseYear: Number,
  mpaaRating: String,
  cast: [String]
});
```

Note the `cast` property's type is an Array of Strings.

> Mongoose vocabulary: A **property** may also be referred to as a "**path**".

#### 👉 **YOU DO** - Define Another Schema Property <small>(1 min)</small>

1. Add an additional property named `nowShowing` with a type of `Boolean` (make sure that it's upper-cased so that it refers to JavaScript's built-in `Boolean` object wrapper).

<details>
<summary>
Try not to peek...
</summary>
<hr>

<pre>
const movieSchema = new Schema({
  title: String,
  releaseYear: Number,
  mpaaRating: String,
  cast: [String],
  // Newly added property below
  nowShowing: Boolean
});
</pre>

<hr>
</details>

### Add the `timestamps` Option

Mongoose can automatically create `createdAt` and `updatedAt` fields to every document if we provide a second argument to the `Schema` constructor and set a `timestamps` property in it as follows:

```js
const movieSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  ...
}, {
  timestamps: true
});
```

This really comes in handy so it's recommended to pretty much add the `timestamps: true` option to all schemas that you define.

Awesome! We've defined a Mongoose schema!

As we progress toward learning more about Mongoose, we will be adding additional functionality to the `movieSchema`.

## 7. Built-in Types for Properties

Here are the eight built-in `schemaTypes` available:

- `String`
- `Number`
- `Boolean`
- `Date`
- `mongoose.Schema.Types.ObjectId`
- `mongoose.Schema.Types.Buffer`
- `[]` (Array) 
- `mongoose.Schema.Types.Mixed`

Of note are a few types above that are not built into JavaScript:
	
- `mongoose.Schema.Types.ObjectId`
- `mongoose.Schema.Types.Buffer`
- `mongoose.Schema.Types.Mixed`

When we need to specify one of the above types, e.g., `ObjectId`, we will need to ensure that we access them through the object hierarchy. 

Defining that `Schema` shortcut variable, enables us to write `Schema.Types.ObjectId`, leaving off the `mongoose.`.

## 8. Compiling Schemas into Models

> Reminder: Models, not schemas are used to perform CRUD on a MongoDB collection.

Compiling a schema into a model is as easy as calling the `mongoose.model` method:

```js
const Schema = mongoose.Schema;
	
const movieSchema = new Schema({
  title: String,
  releaseYear: Number,
  mpaaRating: String,
  cast: [String],
  nowShowing: Boolean
}, {
  timestamps: true
});
	
// Compile the schema into a model and export it
module.exports = mongoose.model('Movie', movieSchema);
```

Again, there is a one-to-one mapping between Mongoose models and MongoDB collections.

By default, the collection in the database will be named as the pluralized version of the model in all lower-case.

Congrats on defining your first Mongoose schema and exporting its model!

<details>
<summary>
👀 Do you need to sync your code?
</summary>
<hr>

<code>git reset --hard origin/sync-2-create-model</code>

<hr>
</details>
