## 5. To-Do Refactor

We're going to refactor the To-Do code from yesterday to follow best practices by:

- Copying over the **index.ejs** view and put the todos "database" into the `models` folder.

- Implementing best-practice routing.

- Organizing the route handling code into a controller functions (AKA controller actions).

### To-Do Refactor - `index.ejs`

- Create **todos/index.ejs**:

	```
	mkdir views/todos
	touch views/todos/index.ejs
	```

- Add the HTML boilerplate.

- Update the title to: `<title>Express To-Do</title>`

- Here's the EJS from yesterday to copy/paste (replacing the existing `<body>` element):

	```html
	 <body>
	   <h1>Todos</h1>
	   <ul>
	     <% todos.forEach(function(t) { %>
	       <li>
	         <%= t.todo %>
	           - 
	         <%= t.done ? 'done' : 'not done' %>
	       </li>
	     <% }); %>
	   </ul>
	 </body>
	```

### To-Do Refactor - `models/todo.js`

- Now let's create and copy over our model.

- Create **models/todo.js**:

	```
	touch models/todo.js
	```

	> Note that modules for models should be named singularly.

- Here's the slightly refactored code from yesterday, copy it into **models/todo.js**:

	```js
	const todos = [
      {id: 125223, todo: 'Feed Dogs', done: true},
      {id: 127904, todo: 'Learn Express', done: false},
      {id: 139608, todo: 'Buy Milk', done: false}
    ];
	
	module.exports = {
	  getAll
	};
	
	function getAll() {
	  return todos;
	}
	```
	Look it over - any questions?

### To-Do Refactor - Routing

Since we need a router for our **todos** resource and don't need the **routes/users.js** router module that Express Generator created, we'll modify it instead of having it lay around unused.

- First, rename the **routes/users.js** route module to a name that's more appropriate for our resource - **routes/todos.js**.

- The renaming of **routes/users.js** to **routes/todos.js** requires a couple of changes in **server.js**; both when the router module is being _required_:

	```js
	// server.js

	// around line 8
	var todosRouter = require('./routes/todos');
	```
	and when it's being _mounted_:
	
	```js
	// around line 23
	app.use('/todos', todosRouter);
	```

- In **routes/todos.js**, let's remove the following code:

	```js
	// DELETE the following...

	/* GET users listing. */
	router.get('/', function(req, res, next) {
	  res.send('respond with a resource');
	});
	```
	and add the following comment to remind us of how the router was mounted:

	```js
	// All actual paths start with "/todos"
	```

- We now want to define the route for the To-Dos **index** functionality (display all To-Dos).  However, we are not going to write an anonymous inline function for the route handler.  Instead, we are going to follow a best practice of putting the function in a controller module that can export any number of controller actions (functions).

- Here's the route that uses a controller action that we'll code in a bit:

	```js
	// routes/todos.js

	var express = require('express');
	var router = express.Router();

	// Require the controller that exports To-Do CRUD functions
	var todosCtrl = require('../controllers/todos');

	// All actual paths begin with "/todos"

	// GET /todos
	router.get('/', todosCtrl.index);
	```
	> Is that route definition tidy or what?!?!

- Note that the Express app is unhappy because the controller we required and the `index` function do not yet exist. That's next...

## 6. Controller Modules

In a web application that follows the MVC architectural pattern, **controllers**:

- Handle the request coming from the client (browser).
- Implement the application logic such as using Models to perform CRUD data operations (create, retrieve, update & delete), fetching data from an API, etc.
- Respond to the request by rendering views (often passing data to them) or issuing a redirect.

Controller functions are no different than the inline functions that we've already seen!

We just want to separate our concerns, i.e., we want to separate the **route definitions** from their respective **controller functions**.

### Code the **controllers/todos.js** `index` Action

- Let's start by creating a controller module for the _todos_ resource:

	```
	touch controllers/todos.js
	```
	> Yes, only modules for **models** are named singularly.

- Here's the function we used yesterday, just refactored into a function declaration named `index`.  Let's copy/paste it into **controllers/todos.js**:

	```js
  // controllers/todos.js

	function index(req, res) {
	  res.render('todos/index', {
	    todos: Todo.getAll()
	  });
	}
	```

- Let's export the `index` controller method (also know as a controller action):

	```js
	// controllers/todos.js

	module.exports = {
	  index
	};
	
	function index(req, res) {
	  res.render('todos/index', {
	    todos: Todo.getAll()
	  });
	}
	```
	> A common approach is to export an object near the top because you don't have to scroll to the bottom of the module to see what functionality is being exported.

- Yup, the controller module is going to need to require that Todo model:

	```js
	// controllers/todos.js

	// Convention is to name the model in uppercase and singular
	const Todo = require('../models/todo');

	module.exports = {
	  index
	};
	```

### Test the Refactor!

With the refactor complete, browsing to `localhost:3000/todos` should render the to-dos just like yesterday!

Hey, let's add a link on **views/index.ejs** so that we can click it to see the To-Dos instead of navigating via the address bar...

- In **views/index.ejs**:

	```html
	<!DOCTYPE html>
	<html>
	  <head>
	    <title><%= title %></title>
	    <link rel='stylesheet' href='/stylesheets/style.css' />
	  </head>
	  <body>
	    <h1><%= title %></h1>
	    <a href="/todos">To-Do List</a>
	  </body>
	</html>
	```

- For styling, let's copy that `<link>` over to **todos/index.ejs** and...

- In **routes/index.js**, fix the value of the `title` property being passed to the view:

	```js
	res.render('index', { title: 'Express To-Do' });
	```

That's better!
