## 4. Creating To-Dos

Time to add some additional functionality to our app - adding To-Dos!

What exact functionality do we want?

Do we want to show a form on the `index` view, or do we want a separate page dedicated to adding a To Do?

Typically, for adding To-Dos, you'd want have the form on the same page, however, today we'll demo the dedicated page approach so that we can see how **creating data is often a two-request task**:

1. Browser sends an initial request to see a page that includes a form to input the data, and...

2. The second request will happen when the form is submitted to the server so that it may create the new data, in this case a To-Do, and respond to the client with a "redirect" (status code 302), i.e., tell the browser to make a new GET request.

So yes, creating and updating data in a multi-page web application is often a two-request process:

- `new` + `create` to create a resource
- `edit` + `update` to update a resource

### Suggested Workflow to Add Functionality to a Web App

In SEI, we don't just teach the syntax of programming - we teach helpful processes and techniques, e.g., the Guide on How to Build a Browser Game, that are difficult to discover on your own.

So, you want to add a new feature to your web app?

Below summarizes the gold described by the [Guide to Add a Feature to a Web App](https://gist.github.com/jim-clark/9f9bd19d60d9ce2ec57be8242b6aee96):

1. Identify the "proper" Route (HTTP Method + Path)

2. Create the UI (`<a>` or `<form>`) that will send an HTTP request that matches that route.

3. Define the route on the server and map it to a controller action.

4. Code and export the controller action.

5. `res.render()` a view in the case of a `GET` request, or `res.redirect` if data was changed.  Write the view template if it does not already exist.

Okay, since we are going for the two-request approach, let's get started implementing the `new` functionality that shows a page with a form to enter a new To-Do...

#### Step 1 - Identify the "proper" Route

Checking the [Resourceful Routing for CRUD Operations in Web Applications Chart](https://gist.github.com/jim-clark/17908763db7bd3c403e6), we find that the proper route is:

```
GET /todos/new
```

Let's document this proper route by adding a comment within **routes/todos.js**:

```js
// GET /todos
router.get('/', todosCtrl.index);
// GET /todos/:id
router.get('/:id', todosCtrl.show);
// GET /todos/new   <-- this new route cannot not stay here!
```

#### Step 2 - Create the UI that issues the request

Next step is to add a link in **views/todos/index.ejs** that will invoke this route:

```html
...
  </ul>
  <a href="/todos/new">Add To-Do</a>
```

#### Step 3 - Define the route on the server

Add the `new` route in **routes/todos.js** as follows:

```js
// GET /todos
router.get('/', todosCtrl.index);
// GET /todos/new
router.get('/new', todosCtrl.new);
// GET /todos/:id
router.get('/:id', todosCtrl.show);
```

<details>
<summary>
❓ Why does the <code>new</code> route need to be defined before the <code>show</code> route?
</summary>
<hr>

<p>Express attempts to match routes to the request in the order that they are defined.</p>

<p>If <code>new</code> was defined after the <code>show</code> route, then the text of "new" in the URL of the request, e.g.,<br>
<code>https://localhost:3000/todos/new</code><br>
would match the <code>:id</code> route parameter defined in the "show" route causing the <code>todosCtrl.show</code> function to run instead of the intended <code>todosCtrl.new</code> function.</p>

<hr>
</details>

#### Step 4 - Code and export the controller action

We need to code the `todosCtrl.new` action we just mapped to the `new` route...

In **controllers/todos.js**:

```js
module.exports = {
  index,
  show,
  new: newTodo
};
	
function newTodo(req, res) {
  res.render('todos/new', { title: 'New Todo' });
}
```

> Note that you cannot name a function using a JS [reserved word](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#reserved_words), however, there's no problem with object properties. 

#### Step 5 - Render the view & write it if necessary

We already called `res.render()`, we just need to write the **new.ejs** template.

Create **views/todos/new.ejs**, then copy this good stuff:

```html
<%- include('../partials/header') %>

<form action="/todos" method="POST" autocomplete="off">
  <input type="text" name="todo">
  <button type="submit">Save Todo</button>
</form>

<%- include('../partials/footer') %>
```

Just a basic HTML form is being used to send data to the server when the form is submitted.

When the form is submitted, its `method` and `action` attributes determine what method and path the HTTP request will have:

- The `method` attribute holds the HTTP method/verb. It will usually be set to "POST", but may be a "GET" when performing searches.
- The `action` attribute holds the path.  We'll see why we set `action="/todos"` in a bit.

> Note: The `autocomplete="off"` attribute will prevent the often annoying autocomplete feature of inputs.

Verify that clicking the **Add To-Do** link displays the page with the form - bravo!

<details>
<summary>
👀 Do you need to sync your code?
</summary>
<hr>

<code>git reset --hard origin/sync-4-new-functionality</code>

<hr>
</details>
