### Implementing the second-request (`create`) functionality

Again, creating data can take two separate requests - it depends upon the design of the app.

Let's get started implementing that second-request responsible for creating the new To-Do on the backend...

#### Step 1 - Identify the "proper" Route

**👉 You Do - Identify the Proper Route <small>(1 min)</small>**

1. Use the [Routing Chart](https://gist.github.com/jim-clark/17908763db7bd3c403e6") to identify the proper route (HTTP Method & Endpoint) for creating a To-Do data resource on the server.

2. Comment the proper route as we've been doing within **routes/todos.js** 

#### Step 2 - Create the UI that issues the request

The `<form>` we already completed **is** the UI and it's ready for business!

> Check [this](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Forms/Your_first_HTML_form) out if you want to learn more about HTML Forms.

✅ Step 1 - Determine proper route

✅ Step 2 - Create UI

#### Step 3 - Define the Route

In **routes/todos.js**:

```js
router.get('/:id', todosCtrl.show);
// POST /todos
router.post('/', todosCtrl.create);  // add this route
```

Yay - our first non-`GET` route!

#### Step 4 - Code and export the controller action

In **controllers/todos.js**:

```js
  ...
  create
};
	
function create(req, res) {
  console.log(req.body);
  // The model is responsible for creating data
  // Todo.create(req.body);
  // Do a redirect anytime data is changed
  res.redirect('/todos');
}
```

Check out what properties on the `req.body` object get logged out.

`req.body` is courtesy of this middleware in **server.js**:
	
```js
app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: false }));
```

The properties on `req.body` will always match the values of the `<input>`'s `name` attributes:

```html
<input type="text" name="todo">
```

Okay, let's uncomment `Todo.create(req.body);` and go code it!

We need is that `create` in **models/todo.js**:

```js
// models/todo.js

module.exports = {
  getAll,
  getOne,
  create
};
	
function create(todo) {
  // Add the id
  todo.id = Date.now() % 1000000;
  // New todos wouldn't be done :)
  todo.done = false;
  todos.push(todo);
}
```

> Note that whenever `nodemon` restarts the server, additional To-Dos will be lost because we are not using a database to save them - yet!

#### Congrats on creating To-Dos!

<details>
<summary>
👀 Do you need to sync your code?
</summary>
<hr>

<code>git reset --hard origin/sync-5-create-functionality</code>

<hr>
</details>
