## 6. Practice Exercises - Node Modules <small>(15 mins)</small>

### 💪 Modules Practice - Single Piece of Functionality

Create a module named `random.js`:

1. That has a function **assigned** to the `module.exports` object.
2. The function should define two parameters, `min` & `max`.
3. The function should return a random number, as an integer, between `min` & `max`, inclusive.  This code snippet should look a bit familiar:
    ```js
    Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1) + min);
    ```
4. Test the module in `main.js` like this:
	
	```js
	const random = require('./random');
	for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
	  console.log( random(100, 200) );
	}
	```

### 💪 Modules Practice - Multiple Functionality

Create a module named `circle.js`:

1. That exports two functions, both of which have a `radius` parameter defined.
2. The functions should be named `area` & `circumference`.
3. The functions should...
	- `area`: Computes the area of a circle (radius squared X Pi), with the radius provided as an argument. 
	- `circumference`: Computes the circumference of a circle (radius X 2 X Pi), with the radius provided as an argument
4. Hint: In JS we use `Math.PI` for Pi.
5. Test the module in `main.js` like this:

	```js
	const circle = require('./circle');
	console.log( circle.area(50) );  // 7853.98...
	console.log( circle.circumference(75) );  // 471.23...
	```

## Conclusion

In the next lesson, you will use one of the most popular Node modules, `Express`, that turns Node into a capable web server!

## 7. Further Study

### npm - Node Package Manager

Node uses a package management system to distribute open-source packages called [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (**N**ode **P**ackage **M**anager).

Usually a package distributes a Node module, however, sometimes the package distributes a CLI instead of a module we would use in our program.

Node programs use a `package.json` file that tracks the installed modules that the app depends upon.

Tracking an application's dependencies in `package.json` removes the necessity to push the app's node modules to the projects GitHub repo - this saves **MASSIVE** file storage and bandwidth.

If you start a Node app from scratch, the first thing you should do is create the `package.json` file by entering the following command:

```
npm init
```

It's okay to accept all of the default settings.  To accept the defaults without being prompted, you can run the command as follows:

```
npm init -y
```

Now, let's use `npm` to download and install a package:

```
npm install request
```

There is now a `node_modules` folder that contains a folder for the `request` module and its many dependencies.

There's also a new `package-lock.json` file that npm uses to track dependencies and unlike `package.json`, should not be edited.

Note: it's highly recommended that `node_modules` be added to your `.gitignore_global` file.

We can now require the `request` module in **main.js** and make HTTP requests:

```js
// Don't specify path when module is in node_modules
const request = require('request');
request(
  'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users',
  function(err, res, body) {
    console.log(body);
  }
);
```
> Note the first parameter in the callback is `err`.<br>This "error-first" callback signature is prevalent throughout Node.

Type `node main` to try it out.

Examining the `packages.json` file reveals that it's structured something like this:

	```js
	{
	  "name": "first-node",
	  "version": "1.0.0",
	  "description": "",
	  "main": "main.js",
	  "scripts": {
	    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
	  },
	  "author": "User <email@user.com>",
	  "license": "MIT",
	  "dependencies": {
	    "request": "^2.88.0"
	  }
	}
	```

The `package.json` is used to install a project's dependencies.

Installing dependencies is necessary after cloning a repo or when using starter code for a lesson. 

To demonstrate this, first delete the `node_modules` file, then...

Now we can install our app's dependencies like this:

```
npm install
```

Witness the return of `node_modules`!

### Blocking vs. Non-Blocking Code

Learn more about [Blocking/Non-Blocking, Async/Sync](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/10570246/what-is-non-blocking-or-asynchronous-i-o-in-node-js) code.

## References

[NodeJS Homepage](https://nodejs.org/)

[Node Package Manager](https://www.npmjs.com/)


