### Step 5 - Install Passport

The Passport middleware is easy to install, but challenging to configure correctly.

First the easy part:

```
npm i passport
```

Require it as usual below `express-session`:

```js
var session = require('express-session');
// new code below
var passport = require('passport');
```

#### Step 5.1 - Mount Passport

With Passport required, we need to mount it. Be sure to mount it **after** the session middleware and always **before** any of the routes that would need access to the current user:

```js
// server.js

// app.use(session({... code above

app.use(passport.initialize());
app.use(passport.session());
```
	
The way `passport` middleware is being mounted is straight from the docs.

### Step 6 - Create a Passport Config Module

Because it takes a significant amount of code to configure Passport, we will create a separate module so that we don't pollute **server.js**.

Let's create the file:

```
touch config/passport.js
```

In case you're wondering, although the module is named the same as the `passport` module we've already required, it won't cause a problem because a module's full path uniquely identifies it to Node.

#### Step 6.1 - Passport Module's Exports Code 

Our `config/passport` module is not middleware.

Its code will basically configure Passport and be done with it. We're not going to export anything either.

Requiring below our database is as good of a place as any in **server.js**:

```js
// server.js

require('./config/database');
// new code below
require('./config/passport');
```

#### Step 6.2 - Require Passport 

In the **config/passport.js** module we will certainly need access to the `passport` module:

```js
// config/passport.js

const passport = require('passport');
```

Now on to the _strategy_...

### Step 7 - Install the OAuth Strategy

Time to install the strategy that will implement Google's flavor of OAuth:

```
npm i passport-google-oauth
```

This module implements Google's OAuth 2.0 and 1.0 API. 

Note that _OAuth 1.0_ does still exist here and there, but it's obsolete.

#### Step 7.1 - Require the OAuth Strategy

Now let's require the `passport-google-oauth` module below that of `passport` in **config/passport.js**:

```js
const passport = require('passport');
// new code below
const GoogleStrategy = require('passport-google-oauth').OAuth2Strategy;
```

Note that the variable is named using upper-camel-case.

<details>
<summary>
❓ What does this naming convention typically hint at?
</summary>
<hr>

The it's a <code>class</code>

<hr>
</details>

Let's make sure there's no errors before moving on to the fun stuff!

### Step 8 - Configuring Passport

To configure Passport we will:

1. Call the `passport.use()` method to plug-in an instance of the OAuth strategy and provide a _verify_ callback function that will be called whenever a user has logged in using OAuth.

2. Call the `passport.serializeUser()` method to provide a callback that Passport will call after the _verify_ callback.

3. Call the `passport.deserializeUser()` method to provide a callback that Passport will call for every request when a user is logged in.

#### Step 8.1 `passport.use()`

Time to call the `passport.use()` method to plug-in an instance of the OAuth strategy and provide a _verify_ callback function that will be called whenever a user logs in with OAuth.

In **config/passport.js**:

```js
const GoogleStrategy = require('passport-google-oauth').OAuth2Strategy;
// new code below
passport.use(new GoogleStrategy(
  // Configuration object
  {
    clientID: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
    clientSecret: process.env.GOOGLE_SECRET,
    callbackURL: process.env.GOOGLE_CALLBACK
  },
  // The verify callback function
  // Let's use async/await!
  async function(accessToken, refreshToken, profile, cb) {
    // A user has logged in with OAuth...
  }
));
```

Note the settings from the `.env` file being passed to the `GoogleStrategy` constructor function.

Next we have to code the _verify_ callback function...

#### Step 8.2 - The Verify Callback

The _verify_ callback will be called by Passport when a user has logged in with OAuth.

It's called a _verify_ callback because with most other strategies we would have to verify the credentials, but with OAuth, well, there are no credentials!

In this callback we must:

- Fetch the user from the database and provide them back to Passport by calling the `cb()` callback function, or...

- If the user does not exist, we have a new user! We will add them to the database and pass along this new user in the `cb()` callback function.

But wait, how can we tell what user to lookup?

Looking at the callback's signature:

```js
function(accessToken, refreshToken, profile, cb) {
```
	
We can see that we are being provided the user's `profile` by Google.

If we were to inspect this `profile` object, we'd find the following useful properties:

- **`id`**: The user's _Google Id_ that uniquely identifies each Google account.
- **`displayName`**: The user's full name.
- **`emails`**: An array of email objects associated with the account.
- **`photos`**: An array of avatar image objects associated with the account.

Let's add these field to our `User` model's schema to hold it...

#### Step 8.3 - Modify the `User` Model

Let's add a property for `googleId` to our `userSchema` inside `models/user.js` file:

```js
const userSchema = new Schema({
  name: String,
  googleId: {
    type: String,
    required: true
  },
  email: String,
  avatar: String
}, {
  timestamps: true
});
```

Cool, now when we get a new user via OAuth, we can use the Google `profile` object's info to create our new user!

#### Step 8.4 - Verify Callback Code

Now we need to code the callback!

We're going to need access to our `User` model:

```js
const GoogleStrategy = require('passport-google-oauth').OAuth2Strategy;
// new code below
const User = require('../models/user');
```

Cool, here comes the code for the entire `passport.use` method. We'll review it as we type it in...

```js
passport.use(new GoogleStrategy(
  // Configuration object
  {
    clientID: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
    clientSecret: process.env.GOOGLE_SECRET,
    callbackURL: process.env.GOOGLE_CALLBACK
  },
  // The verify callback function...
  // Marking a function as an async function allows us
  // to consume promises using the await keyword
  async function(accessToken, refreshToken, profile, cb) {
    // When using async/await  we use a
    // try/catch block to handle an error
    try {
      // A user has logged in with OAuth...
      let user = await User.findOne({ googleId: profile.id });
      // Existing user found, so provide it to passport
      if (user) return cb(null, user);
      // We have a new user via OAuth!
      user = await User.create({
        name: profile.displayName,
        googleId: profile.id,
        email: profile.emails[0].value,
        avatar: profile.photos[0].value
      });
      return cb(null, user);
    } catch (err) {
      return cb(err);
    }
  }
));
```

#### Step 8.5 `serializeUser()` & `deserializeUser()` Methods

With the `passport.use()` method done, we now need to code two more methods inside of `config/passport` module.

#### Step 8.6 `serializeUser()` Method

After the verify callback function returns the user document, passport calls the `passport.serializeUser()` method's callback passing that same user document as an argument.

It is the job of that callback function to return the nugget of data that passport is going to add to the **session** used to track the user:

```js
// Add to bottom of config/passport.js
passport.serializeUser(function(user, cb) {
  cb(null, user._id);
});
```

By using the MongoDB `_id` of the user document we can easily retrieve the user doc within the `deserializeUser()` method's callback...

#### Step 8.7 `deserializeUser()` Method

The `passport.deserializeUser()` method's callback function is called every time a request comes in from an existing logged in user.

The callback needs to return what we want passport to assign to the `req.user` object.

Code it below the `passport.serializeUser()` method:

```js
// Add to bottom of config/passport.js
passport.deserializeUser(async function(userId, cb) {
  // It's nice to be able to use await in-line!
  cb(null, await User.findById(userId));
});
```

Let's do another error check.

<details>
<summary>
👀 Do you need to sync your code?
</summary>
<hr>

<code>git reset --hard origin/sync-17-passport</code>

<hr>
</details>
